basic story concept is the rift between humans (fauns, naturals) and augmented humans (aegis alliance, mods), the player character starts flying for the Aegis Airforce at the tail end of the war. the player is a next generation modified human, created specifically for fighting in the war a good while before the story begins. The player is known for their ability to handle g-forces of their custom made Nova Wasp. the player spends the beginning part of the game wiping out the remaining of the faun forces. the player character has been told that fauns are all evil/lesser forms of life/etc, this is reiterated by the casual comments of people in the military.

after the faun govt and military collapses, the naturals are technically equal under the law but are considered second class citizens. mods are unable to reproduce via their own means and children must be created not bred. it became common place for aegis to create modifieds that are already at an adult age. because of this aegis does not invest in childcare, hospitals and so on. modifieds do not get sick in the way naturals do and thus cannot be treated the same. because of this healthcare for the naturals is near non existent beyond underground natural doctors. because of this death rates among naturals are high and opportunities are low as they cannot compete with their modified counterparts. naturals were forced out of their homeland as they cannot afford to live there anymore, they have been forced into the slums and streets. these are of course carefully hidden by the aegis govt from the general public.

like all wars, the end is never as clear as it seems. while the general public views the conflict as over, it is never truly over. when you wield a large hammer, everything looks like a nail. once the war is "over" the military must find conflicts to justify its existence. there is a small faction of former members of the faun army called [something akin to communist groups]. they defected from the faun army towards the end of the war. this faction exists mainly to provide protection and establish something resembling a decent way of life for the naturals who are largely forgotten or oppressed by the aegis govt. the have established a stronghold in the asteroid belt, far away from most of civilization. the asteroid belt has been largely ignored by the aegis government as the majority of the resources on the belt have already been exploited. a commune of sorts, focused on farming and self sustainability. they live in demissioned mining outposts and they use ships and resources that have been abandoned there.

occasionally they need resources which they cannot create internally, such as weaponry, ammunition, building materials, space suits, oxygen etc. they have no choice but to steal from passing cargo ships. because of this they have developed a good relationship with a lot of the crews that pilot such vessels. they often rough up the cargo ships enough so that the higher ups believe that they have been stolen from without actually hurting anyone. the asteroid belt is a generally unsafe area with various bandits and other pirates. most of which are friendly with each other as ultimately they have all been forgotten by the govt. being former natural army members, they have access to some obselete military hardware which is how they are able to traverse the belt, raid cargo ships, defend themselves from the authorities and so on.

the aegis govt portrays the faction as a militant/terrorist group attempting to overthrow/destabilize the govt. as you might expect, running cargo ships past the asteroid belt is a lucrative business and thus the aegis govt has a vested interest in figting such pirate/bandit groups. in addition, many things can be justified if they are done towards "terrorists". once the war is over, the military is pointed towards this faction and told to shoot. 

the player character is put on a task force specifically to run missions against the faction. these missions start out morally ambigious but become increasingly morally questionable as time goes on. starting with firing on fleeing faction members and climaxing in the destruction of one of the asteroids under their control with lots of uninvolved civilians. the player character protests and is told by their superior that "if you don't pull the trigger we will kill you and find someone who will"

the player character meets another character when they are placed on the task force. there are some naturals within the territory owned by aegis, land that has been captured and so on. the naturals cannot compete with the mods for jobs, so there is an underground network of sneaking naturals into the military as its one of the few places where naturals can have a relatively good way of life. one of such people happened to be placed in the task force that the player character is now on.
